# Bikestore_Dashboard


This is a practice dashboard created with both excel and tableau

## Introduction
This repository contains two different dashboards, one created using Excel and the other using Tableau, for analyzing sales data obtained from a YouTube tutorial. 
The project provides insights into sales trends, top-performing stores, products, and sales representatives.
You can access the interactive dashboard [here](https://public.tableau.com/views/BikestoresDashboard_16961913194630/Dashboard1?:language=en-GB&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)
## Analysis
In excel pivot tables and charts were generated leading to the interactive dashboard. Similar viz were created with tableau.

Categories:
- Revenue per Year: A breakdown of sales revenue by year, highlighting trends.
- Revenue per Store/State: An overview of revenue generated by different stores and states.
- Top Customers: Identification of the top customers based on the amount of goods purchased.
- Revenue per Brand: Insights into sales revenue generated by different brands.
- Revenue per Product Category: Analysis of revenue based on product categories.
- Highest Sales Rep: Recognition of the sales representative with the highest sales performance.
## Insights  
- In the three years (2016, 2017, 2018), 2017 had the highest sales revenue.
- There has been a sharp decline in sales since May 2015, indicating the need for a review of business strategies.
- The New York store consistently brings in the most revenue, while the Texas store generates the least.
- Mountain bikes and Trek brand products are the most purchased items.
- Marcelene Boyer is the sales representative with the highest sales performance.
## Recommendation
Based on insights
- Implement more targeted advertisement campaigns in the Texas store to boost sales.
- Conduct a thorough review of business strategies to address the decline in sales since May 2018.
- Engaeg high performing sales rep to mentor others who aren't performing well
## Credits
https://youtu.be/1pHYKdyRvrw?si=gBkQMfmdoklUOCCc





